192 NOTES.

which the judges passed sentence. At the upper part was placed
the sella curulis, on which the praetor sat.

36. Quid .- the poet now derides the figure, which the praetor
made, when presiding at the Circensian garsiea—Curribus .· tri-
umphal cars, which were drawn by four white horses.

38. Τιιηίεά Jom's .- those who triumphed wore a tunic or gar-
ment, which, at other times, was kept in the temple of Jupiter.—
Sarrana: δαν-να was the ancient name of Tyre, famous for its
mrple dyc.

1 41. Publicus: sc. ser-vus: the Romans had public as wellas
private servantS‚ who attendcd them on such occasions as these.
This servant assisted in holding up the heavy crown of the prae-
torn—Consul . . . eodem: the ancients had an institution, that a
slave. should ride in the same chariot with a consul, when he
trfflmphed, and should admonish him to recollect that he was a
ΊΙὶαΠ.

As the proetor is here represented as triumphing, the word
consul is used.

43. Volucrem . . . eburno .- the eagle with expanded wings,
which the triumphant praetor held, on the top of his ivor-y sceptre.

44. Proecedentia . . . officia: for longum agmen qfficii causti:
these were the great man's dependants‚ who, on this occasion,
marched in solemn procession before the chariot.

45. N'iveos . . . Quirites: in triumphal prooessions, citizens,
clad in white, walked by the side of the chariot.

46. Defossa . . . amicos .- ⁴ whom the sportula, buried in his
coffers, (and not sincere attachment,) has made his friends)

47. Tunc : Democritus in his time.

50. Vervecnm . . . nasci.- the Boeoiians, Thraciam, and par-
ticularly the people of Abdera, a city of Thrace, were noted for
stupidity.

52. Fortunae . . . laqueum .· mandare laqueum alicui, is a phrase
somewhat like, go hang yourself.

5³3. ‚Uectium . . . unguem.- to hold out the middle finger, the
rest being conti-acted, was· significant of the utmost contempt.

54. Ergo: i. e. since few can distinguish between what are
real blessings, and the reverse—Supervacua : the final a of this
word is here preserved from elision.

55. Propter . . . deorum .· it was customary with the ancients
to write their vows on paper or waxen tablets‚ and, sealing them
up, to affix them to the knees of the gods with wax .· they used
also to spread wax on the knees of the image, and thereon write
their wishes. The knees were considered the seat of mercy.

The gods permit us to ask, but the consequences of having our
petitions answered are often fatal.

56. Quosdam : the poet now passes to honora, and, by exam-
ples, shows that, like tichos, they prove the destruction of many.

58. Pagina .· pagina, in its proper and literal sense, signifies
a page of a book, but here, a plate of bras8‚ fixed before the

